---
layout: post
title: pgAdmin4 ?
category: posts
---

[pgAdmin4][pgAdmin] is an opensource postgres GUI tool to manage multiple postgresql servers.

### It allows to perform various operations such as:###

* Create Server group/Server/Database/Schema/Tables so on...
* Edit/Update database objects.
* Drop/Delete/Drop cascade database objects.
* Refresh Object.

### Features of pgAdmin4:###


1. Runs Fast:
With every new release, pgAdmin4 is becoming fast and work seamlessly. Now even on windows loading pgAdmin4 takes 5-6 seconds.


2. Browser Tree:
It is backbone of pgAdmin4. It is a tree of various database objects such as Sever groups, Servers, Schema and its child nodes.
Various operations such as edit properties, refresh, drop and various tools such as
Grant wizard, Backup/Restore database, Maintenance, Query tool, Reload configurations
are easily accessible with Context Menu and File Menus.


3. Query Tool & Edit Grid:

   * Write and execute long queries.
   * View large data of tables or views in just fraction of seconds.
   * An easy access to History tab which displays list of queries executed during the session.
   * Load and Save queries written in query tool with custom FileManager.
   * Add new rows, update table rows, delete rows instantaneously.
   * Support of excel like features such as:
      * Select single cell
      * Select columns/rows more than one
      * Select all rows with just a single click irrespective of number of table rows.
   * Quick access to query menu items such as execute query, comment/uncomment queries, find/replace in editor.
   * Graphical plan for queries executed.
   * Powerful debugger with rich features that supports debugging pl/pgsql functions.


4. Multiple platform support:

   * Windows
   * Linux
   * Mac OSx


5. Databases Support:
It supports only PostgreSql 9.2 and above. it runs on Postgresql 9.2 below but only few things will work.


6. Reverse Engineering of database objects:
It provides SQL of selected database object in SQL panel.


7. Support Desktop and Server Mode.


8. Keyboard shortcuts:
  It supports an easy to access to various actions with keyboard shortcuts.
  List of [keyboard shortcuts][kbdsts] available


---
If you have any questions, ask me on [email][address] id

[jekyll]: https://github.com/mojombo/jekyll
[pgAdmin]: https://www.pgadmin.org
[kbdsts]: https://www.pgadmin.org/docs/pgadmin4/dev/keyboard_shortcuts.html
[address]: imsurinder90@gmail.com